# Voting
#### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>
#### Description:

This is my CS50x 2021 Final Project. It is a website that allows users to create polls, vote on them, as well as keep a record of past polls they have created. 

Users have to register for an account to create polls, and set all the candidates of the poll to activate it. Once a poll has been activated, the user will be given a unique room key for that particular poll. Room keys are randomly generated, and contain numbers and letters. Each room key is 12 characters long. Anyone can use a room key to vote on a poll. They can do this by going to the website and entering the room key into the box provided on the frontpage. Since voting is anonymous, users do not have to log in to vote on polls. The creator of the poll can monitor each poll's progress by logging into their account, and their homepage should show a summary of all the active polls a user has. To view the details of a particular poll, users can click on the poll name, and they will be redirected to a page that shows them the current vote count, the time the poll was created, as well as the number of votes each candidate currently has. From the homepage, users can also close any active polls by clicking "close". This is non-reversible and once a poll has been closed, it can no longer be opened again. Once this is done, the room key can no longer be used, and users who try to enter this room key at the front page of the website would informed of the poll’s closure.

Each poll is allowed a maximum of 15 candidates. I had to set a limit on the number of candidates each user could set so that would not enter an arbitrarily big number and crash the entire system. I put 15 as I thought it was neither too big nor too small. 

All of the logic for the website lies inside the folder called "website". Outside, the main.py file is used to execute the program. It refers to a function called create_app() in the __init__.py file in the website folder. The create_app() function configures all the settings for the application. Inside the website folder, the auth.py file handles all logic for user authentication including registering for an account, logging into an account as well as logging out. The view.py file handles all the logic for the functionality of the rest of the website. The models.py file is a template for the SQL database, with each class representing a table. 

The “templates” folder holds all the templates for the website. The layout template was copied from CS50’s Problem Set 9, Finance. Minor modifications were made, including adding logic to show flashed messages at the top to indicate when certain actions made by the user were successful or unsuccessful. The “static” folder holds only the styles.css file. This file was also copied from CS50’s Problem Set 9, but was modified to include different font sizes for different classes. 

Outside the “website” folder, there is a Procfile which is needed for deployment to Heroku. The requirements.txt file is to specify to Heroku the packages required for this website to function, as well as their versions. The runtime.txt file specifies the specific python version needed.
